So with the user model created, let's create a new user whenever we get a new request reaching this route
here. For that I will import my user model, so I will create a new constant and require, well my user model
in the models folder.
Now here in the sign-up method, I expect to get e-mail and password as part of my request.
So what we can do is we can create a new user with new user using our model, passing a javascript object
to it to configure it and there I will set an e-mail property because my user model has an e-mail
property
and then also the password property as a next step.
So setting the e-mail property to request body e-mail and I simply expect to have that property on
the request body.
Now for the password, we can do request body password and this now would be super bad,
do you know why? Well we would store the password unencrypted,
so in raw form. If anyone ever has access to our database, he can read all the user passwords in raw form
and we for example as the creator of this app could do so
too. Well that's not great because a lot of users reuse passwords,
so we probably can then even access their e-mail accounts or anything like that,
leave alone the accounts on this page. So definitely don't store the password as this,
instead you want to hash it, you want to encrypt it in a way that can't be decrypted,
so that can't be reversed,
I will still show you how you can then confirm it for login.
So to do that, I'll again quit my Node server and install another package with npm install --save
.
The package I want to install is called bcrypt,
that is a package that offers encryption functionalities which we can use in NodeJS. Once it is installed,
we have to import it in our user route,
so there I add a new import, const bcrypt or any name you like and we simply require bcrypt, like
this. Now we can use it here in the user sign-up
and of course I want to use it to simply, well create a new user with that. To do that,
I'll use my bcrypt package
and there we have a hash method.
This hash method takes an input and that is the value we want to hash, so we want to encrypt
basically, that would be the request body password.
We then pass the salting rounds
and that simply means the higher the number here, the longer it will take but the safer it will be because
it uses mathematics basically to generate a random number and to generate a hash which is secure.
Now for that, I'll use 10 which is a value high enough to yield a secure hash and not take infinitely
which you also don't want
and then we got a callback which will fire whenever it is done.
Alternatively we chain a promise, so we use a then here, then will simply yield us the hash once it's
done.
So it's inside this then block that
we then want to create a new user and for the password, we will not store the raw password but the generated
hash.
Now with that, we got a user object which has the password encrypted
and now we can you simply call user save to save the user to the database and then be informed when
this succeeded,
so here in this callback, here in the then block,
we know the user will be saved and then we can send or create a response where we set the status code
to 201 because we created a new user and where we send back some JSON data. For example, we can send
back a message, user created and maybe the result data so that we can see what's inside there.
I also will add a catch block here because whilst I won't add all the error handling logic yet,
I want to show you what happens if we try to add a user which actually has an e-mail address
we already got stored in the database.
So here I will send back a status of 500 and a JSON message where I have my error which holds the error
I'm getting.
So this is now my set up where I hash the password and then I save the user
and with that, we should be able to create new users and store them in our database,
well at least as soon as we connected Angular.
So let's restart our Node server and in the next lecture, we will connect Angular to our back-end. Now
actually before I switch,
I'm getting an error here,
I'm getting an error which tells me that a cyclic dependency was detected, it turns out this seems to
be a bug with Mongoose.
Now if you're not getting this error, everything's fine,
you can ignore this. A fix is to go to app.js and on that MongoDB link here to your back-end database,
remove retry rewrites true, remove that query params, it's not required
and with that, it should restart without the error.
Now with that, back to Angular,
let's continue working there.